# ABSTRACT

COSTA, H. G. L. **Elucidário.art: Development and Implementation of a Collection Management System**. 2023. Dissertação (Mestrado em Ciência da Informação) - Escola de Comunicações e Artes, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, 2023.

The Elucidário.art is a Collection Management System, in other words, an application developed for the management of museum collections. Built upon international standards of information interoperability, Elucidário.art was designed as a tool to support the management and documentation of museum collections in small to medium-sized mixed museums. To accomplish this, through a literature review, this research aims to define what museum information entails, addressing its physical, conceptual, legislative, and normative aspects. It also provides an overview of museum management and documentation, and analyzes various data models for the representation, management, and documentation of museum items, with a particular focus on Linked Art, created by CIDOC-Icom, which emphasizes interoperability between applications, and Spectrum, developed by Collections Trust, which offers 21 procedures for museum management. Furthermore, we illustrate how the application was designed, developed, and tested in two ways. The first method involves automated testing through unit and integration tests configured to assess whether functions and methods achieve their objectives and continue to function properly after new additions. The second method entails a case study of the application's use in managing the collection of the Ema Klabin House Museum, located in São Paulo, Brazil, which houses a mixed collection of art and historical artifacts.

Keywords: Information Science. Museology. Museum Documentation. Collection Management System.
