#

The life-cycle of a museum object can describe its trajectory before its acquisition to its exit from the collection, passing through stages of conservation, restoration, exhibition, research, loans, among others. Elucidário.art's Data Model for Organization and Representation of Museum Information (MDORIM) uses Linked-art to represent this information and implements the Standard Procedures for Collections Recording Used in Museums (SPECTRUM) in version 5.1, which describes 21 procedures for museum collections, with 9 of them being main and mandatory for accreditation by Collections Trust, a British organization that sets standards for museum management. SPECTRUM is also recommended by International Council of Museums (ICOM) and used by museums worldwide, including in Brazil. Linked-Art is a data model for applications based on CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model and is focused on  representing data for art museums. Linked-Art was created by an international CIDOC working group and representatives of museum institutions. MDORIM seeks to establish a bridge between Linked-Art and SPECTRUM, allowing the management of documentation in an interoperable way using a common standard among museums. To do so, we will analyze the documentations of SPECTRUM and Linked-art and create a mapping between the two. Additionally, MDORIM introduces information classes for auditing, such as editing history and permission levels by user type. The Elucidário.art app is being developed as part of the Professional Master's Program in Information Management by the Post-Graduate Program in Information Science at the School of Communication and Arts of the University of São Paulo (PPGCI-ECA-USP).
